

The consensus among practitioners is that contagion is a measure of the extent of transmission of shocks during a financial crisis from one market to another. For example, contagion is defined by Forbes & Rigonon (2002) as a significant surge in correlation between two markets after a shock in one of the markets occurred. Another prominent definition is that contagion is measured by the excess correlation between two markets that cannot be explained by economic fundamentals (Bekhaert, Harvey, & Ng, 2005). By leaning more on extreme value theory, Longin & Solnik (2001) defines contagion as an increase in the correlation of two markets in the case of extreme returns. The former definition of contagion appeals to some authors since it provides a clear hypothesis that can be tested and a straight forward method of discerning between positive (bull market) and negative (bear market) shocks. 
For example, 


Although continuous international market maturity and integration has provided investors with a plethora of additional opportunities for diversification, it has also allowed the prices of commodities to be ever more integrated and added additional risks that can be difficult to measure. 
With markets that continue to integrate, it is natural that the co-movement and interdependence of prices will be observed (Forbes & Rigobon, 2002). Whilst some of the interdependence of prices can be explained by traditional economic theory and measured by simple correlation estimates, it has been observed that correlation structures can change directly after a shock in the market (King & Wadhwani, 1990). Since the structure of a portfolio is typically built upon the estimated correlation structure prior to a shock, the benefits of portfolio diversification can be severely impacted and leave an investor exposed. 
Changes in correlation structures caused by financial crises have been observed and measured by a variety of authors. Examples of prominent financial crises that have been studied in depth are the US stock market crash of October 1987 (Lee & Kim, 1993), the Mexican peso breakdown of 1994 (Rodriguez, 2007), the East Asian crisis of 1997 (Horen, Jager, & Klaassen, 2006) and the US market crash of 2007-2009 (Kenourgios & Dimitriou, 2015). Although these crises originated in the specified countries of study, correlations with other countries surged post-crisis and the effects spread. For example, the Mexican peso crisis of 1994 rapidly spread to other developing countries in Latin America and East Asia (Eun & Resnick, 2014). This type of transmission of shocks during a financial crisis is generally referred to as contagion.
Finding the exact definition of contagion has been a matter of debate. The consensus among practitioners however is that contagion is a measure of the extent of transmission of shocks during a financial crisis from one market to another. For example, contagion is defined by Forbes & Rigonon (2002) as a significant surge in correlation between two markets after a shock in one of the markets occurred. Another prominent definition is that contagion is measured by the excess correlation between two markets that cannot be explained by economic fundamentals (Bekhaert, Harvey, & Ng, 2005). By leaning more on extreme value theory, Longin & Solnik (2001) defines contagion as an increase in the correlation of two markets in the case of extreme returns. The former definition of contagion appeals to some authors since it provides a clear hypothesis that can be tested and a straight forward method of discerning between positive (bull market) and negative (bear market) shocks. 
Determining whether contagion is present during bull markets, bear markets or both is of great interest to investors. Since most portfolio optimization techniques focus on overall correlations and not correlations in the case of extreme returns, unexpected spill overs can dramatically affect the expected risk and profitability of financial assets if the extent of the transmission of shocks is not considered (Cubillos-Rocha, Gomez-Gonzalez, & Melo-Velandia, 2019). This can be specifically relevant if an investor chooses to diversify his or her portfolio using emerging markets. It has been observed that if a crisis occurs in an emerging market, capital flight in other emerging markets are to follow even if there exist vast differences in the economic fundamentals of the two markets (Feldstein, 2003). 
Emerging markets have however been observed to be an effective tool for international portfolio diversification since developed markets tend to have lower costs of capital whilst emerging markets provide a higher return on capital (Henry, 2007). A natural group of countries that are considered for investment are the BRICS countries, i.e. Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa, since it consists of 5 major emerging economies that provide 23.2% of the world GDP as of April 2018 (IMF, 2018). From the origination of BRIC in 2009 (with the acronym changing to BRICS with South Africa joining in 2010), there has been a continuous effort to align their stances on regional, financial and economic challenges (Info BRICS, 2019). This was reaffirmed with the creation of the BRICS New Development Bank in 2014 which aims to strengthen the efforts of joint and sustainable growth for the countries involved and other emerging economies (New Development Bank, 2019). The main sources of growth for these countries are from their respective Industrial and Resource sectors. Brazil provides exports in natural resources and holds the highest levels of gold and uranium deposits on earth. Their most valuable commodity is timber and they supply 12.3% of the world’s demand (Migiro, 2019). Russia is known for its mining activity and holds the sixth largest reserves of rare earth metals (Gambogi, 2005). India finds its growth in the exporting of IT services and has the fourth largest vehicle industry in the world (India Brand Equity Foundation, 2019). China has the largest natural mineral deposits and leads the world as the largest manufacturing economy. South Africa’s economy has mainly been driven by an abundance of gems and precious metals and is also the largest exporter of platinum in the world (Workman, 2019).
 Since the idea of diversification is to limit the effects of economic shocks on one’s portfolio, this practice leads to two natural questions in the context of contagion. The first is the extent of contagion between international markets and the BRICS countries. This line of literature has been observed from authors like Zhang, Li and Yu (2013), Bekiros (2014), Jin and An (2016), Mensi, Hammoudeh, Nguyen et al (2016), Paul and Gideon (2017) and Ji, Bouri and Roubaud (2018). The second question is the extent of contagion between the BRICS countries themselves. This has been done by Bonga-Bonga (2018) who studied the contagion effects from South Africa to the other BRICS countries. This line of literature is extended by Ahmad, Mishra and Daly (2018) who study sectorial contagion within BRIC (without South Africa) and between BRIC and global markets using directional spill over and conditional correlation models. Although the latter authors provide us with a method to measure contagion on a sectorial level, the methodology that is used only allows for linear relationships and they fail to include South Africa in their study. This study aims to build on this line of literature by considering the possible non-linear contagion effects between sectorial indices as well.
This paper focusses on identifying contagion through the Financial, Retail and Industrial sectors of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa (BRICS) by utilizing a regular vine copula approach. This provides two important contributions towards the literature. Firstly, the regular vine copula approach considers non-linear relationships that can forge contagion, instead of only considering linear relationships. Secondly, this approach provides us with a wide array of possible correlation structures, instead of a correlation structure that is assumed to be fixed. Both contributions are important since the form of the relationship or correlation structures between indices cannot be assumed beforehand. Lastly, this paper contributes to the line of research that considers country-to-country (within sector) contagion, sector-to-sector (within country) contagion and across country and sector contagion.
